# TropAquaPeat
## Overview
R scripts, data and outputs repository for the submitted manuscript "Aquatic Carbon Greenhouse Gas Production and Emission Pathways in a Tropical Peatland Plantation Forest"

## Project Structure
- `data/`: Contains input datasets (either raw or processed).
- `scripts/`: Contains R scripts used for analysis.
- `outputs/`: Contains figures and tables generated by the scripts.
- `README.md`: Documentation of the project.

## Requirements
- R version 4.0 or higher.
- RStudio (optional but recommended).
- Required R packages: Please refer to the R scripts for the specitific R packages.

## Usage
To reproduce the main analyses and figures, run the scripts in any order.

## Data
The input data for these analyses are stored in the data/ folder.

## Outputs
The following outputs are generated by the scripts:
Figures: Located in outputs/figures/
- Figure3.tiff: Dissolved carbon concentrations, δ13C, and F14C values in peat porewater (WTT_Shallower, WTT_Deeper), ditch and canal from our study site.
- Figure4.tiff: Dissolved carbon concentrations, δ13C, F14C values and CO2/CH4 ratio in peat porewater, ditches and canals from our systematic review.
- Figure5.tiff: (a) Stable isotope mixing models reporting the contribution of methanogenesis and ecosystem respiration to dissolved CO2 production. (b) Proportion of CH4 loss pathways, including diffusion or oxidation versus plant-mediated and ebullition pathways. (c) Crossplot δ13C values in porewaters from WTT_Shallower (green) and WTT_Deeper (orange),ditch (yellow) and canal (pink).

## Citation
If you use these scripts or data in your work, please cite:
Taillardat, Moore, Sasmito, Evans, Alfina, Lok, Bandla, Cahya, Deshmukh, Dubey, Kurnianto, Swarup, Tarigan, Taufik, Lupascu, Taylor (2024). "Aquatic Carbon Greenhouse Gas Production and Emission Pathways in a Tropical Peatland Plantation Forest" Geophysical Research Letters (Submitted)

## Contact Information
For any questions or issues, please contact:
Pierre Taillardat
Email: pierre.taillardat@ntu.edu.sg
